Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, we in Tennessee and in the Tennessee delegation
are very proud of some of our distinguished Tennessee and to occupy half places in the
federal government here in Washington.
I'm sure that you're familiar with all of these gentlemen.
For instance, Bill Henry, who comes from Memphis, is the chairman of the Federal Communications
Commission.
Joe Swidler, who used to be with the Tennessee Valley Authority and a lawyer in Tennessee
is chairman of the Federal Power Commission.
But a man that I have been more closely associated with and I expected over Tennessee is better
known for many many reasons than most anyone else is.
None other than Paul Randixon, who is the chairman of the Federal Trade Commission.
We are very glad to have you around on our program today and to have you speak to the
listeners over this station and to you many friends in Tennessee.
Nice to be here with you, Senator.
It's always a pleasure to be around you.
May I say by way of background that Rand comes up a very fine family at Davidson County
in Nashville and I remember that he used to be the old Southern half back on the Vanderbilt
football team for four years.
Rand I think that we used to, this Vanderbilt football team used to play Tennessee once
in a while.
Didn't you and you were over there?
Yes, sure.
I went to Knox for many times.
I didn't come home happy very often.
Well, as I remember, the back of those days you used to win one game once in a while.
I was on one team at Beat Vanderbilt, in fact.
Beat Vanderbilt.
A Beat Tennessee.
I think it's in 1935.
It's about the first time in ten years we've beaten Tennessee.
Well, of course, I was just a few years after I had been at the University of Tennessee.
But I remember I used to go back to all the Tennessee Vanderbilt games and you were a great
heart back.
It was a great joy to watch you play, but I was always led to see you come out on the,
usually come out on the losing side.
Anyway, friends, Randix has always taken an active part in Tennessee affairs, here in
Washington.
Of course, he goes back to Tennessee quite often.
He's been there many times with me.
He was there for two years, the president of the Tennessee State Society, here in the
nation's capital.
And I think it was one of the most successful presidents we ever had.
And then along about six or seven years ago, I got to be chairman of the Antitrust and
Monopoly subcommittee.
This is committee in which we investigated high price of drugs and worked out a drug act
where you worked on other monopoly and antitrust legislation carried on investigations of the
kind of cost of steel, bread and many other things.
So I was looking around for the very best man I could get to be the Chief Counsel for
that staff director of that committee.
I finally able to persuade Rand to come and be our Chief Counsel and staff director, which
he was before he went down to be chairman of Federal Trade Commission.
Ron, how'd you ever get to Washington in the first place?
I remember when I graduated from Vanderbilt, Josh Cote, he took me down to Florida with
him as an assistant football coach.
I finished my law there and as soon as I graduated, I came looking for a job really.
And when I got here, I met a great Tennessee and a great friend of yours, you know, Judge
you and Davis, who was chairman of the Federal Trade Commission and he hired me.
And so that's where I started with them.
Yes, I remember Judge Ewing Davis.
He's a great Tennessee and he was a congressman from one of the middle districts of Tennessee
for many, many years and was made chairman of the Federal Trade Commission.
When was it you joined the Federal Trade Commission around?
It was in about July 1938.
And then I think you had a hitch in the Navy for him?
I've been to the Federal Trade Commission.
Well, some people may not understand the great importance of the Federal Trade Commission
and the business and the consumers.
I tell us generally about the work of the Federal Trade Commission.
I don't know of any of these.
First place, how many members of the Commission are there?
Well, it's a five-man commission.
No more than three can be a member of one political party.
The terms are for seven years.
I suppose you remember one of the political parties that I remember.
I'm a good, strong Democrat.
And of course, you know, this agency was formed in 1914, created 1914.
Then it was created to help preserve the free enterprise system.
They followed through with the old Sherman Act that was passed in 1890.
By the time 1914 had come, I think Congress had learned by that time that many of the problems
that ultimately resulted in Sherman Act actions or causes of action should be dealt with
in the beginning.
And so they created the Federal Trade Commission.
Otherwise, the Sherman Act, which was passed in 1890, was during the time of the great
rubber barons and the big trust and so forth, and was for the purpose of trying to break
up monopolies and cartels after they had been formed.
That's quite a problem once it's happened.
And then the idea of the Federal Trade Commission Act, among other things, was to try to prevent
these monopolies and cartels from getting formed in first place.
The things that lead to them, I'm sorry.
In the Incipient System.
I remember when I was on the House Judiciary Committee, way back in the 40s, that Judge
Ewing Bay was used to come up every year in urge that a loophole in the Clayton Act
be, which the Federal Trade Commission administers be plugged in.
That is, that corporations could join together by buying the assets of one another, but they
couldn't join together by buying the capital stock.
I mean, they could buy the stock, but they couldn't start off by the assets.
So that one corporation just by the assets of another and nothing would ever happen.
I worked with you and we finally got the so-called Cellar Chief Overbill Pass, which plugged
that loophole in 1950.
That's one of the laws that you administer.
I share a certain of their tough one to deal with, because these are mixed, as you know,
more than anybody else.
They're mixed questions of fact, law, economics and everything.
You know what's interesting about that law?
All the time and the effort that you and Congressman Cellar put into the passage of this amendment.
It's taken until just this year, practically, before we really fully understand it, because
with the Browns you decision, the Supreme Court really underwrote the legislative history
of that act.
I've never seen a decision that quite was this specific in adopting the philosophy of the
legislators in its past.
Well, then, finally, it's been pretty well defined by the court as to what it means.
And that is, that one corporation cannot require the capital stock or assets of another if
it's going to suppress competition and tend to create a monopoly.
And it may substantially lessen or tend to create a monopoly.
And this doesn't mean, you know, it's a misunderstood statute, as you probably will know.
Many people think this just says no one can merge, and that certainly is not the law, because
many mergers are desirable.
That's right.
It's those tight mergers that have this effect that you spoke of that must be eliminated.
By administering a section seven of the Clayton Mac, which is the merger provision, is
a very small part of your remarkable work with the Federal Trade Commission.
And I think all businessmen, the chambers of commerce, know that you've brought new
life and new vigor and a new outlook to the work of the Federal Trade Commission and
trying to help small business.
Would you tell us something about that, right?
I'll go back to those four years that I spent with you as your counsel on your animal
monopoly subcommittee.
I remember the many instances of letters that you would get and would all be referred to
you by other senators asking the question that, well, the Federal Trade Commission or
the Department of Justice, Anitrust Section has preceded against my constituent.
Now I'm doing no more than the other competitors are doing.
Why can't they proceed against all of them instead of me or us let me alone or us get
them all?
This taught me a very good lesson, Senator, because traditionally for some 40 some ideas,
the Commission had preceded case by case, hoping that once it was completely litigated
and approved by the High Court, that if someone else was doing the same thing, they would
voluntarily stop.
This hasn't quite worked out.
But actually a great long time to go through all the courts and all the other ones would
be busted by that.
That's correct.
So when I went there, I thought that maybe the time had come for the Commission to try
to use new innovations to try to move against a substantial group against the practice instead
of the one-violator, if they were all doing it for whatever reason caused it.
We should try to do it as equitably as possible now.
Also I think that we brought one other innovation there that is, if you remember when the very
sponsor such as President Wilson in 1912, 1314 when he sponsored the Federal Trade Commission,
he had many things to say among which was that there should be created some agency where
the businessman could come to and seek some kind of guide and send advice if possible
before he found himself in the throws of litigation.
And starting last July, and just a little over a year ago, we've offered this service to
every American businessman that comes within our statutory obligations to come and if we
can we'll give them this advice.
Let me see if I understand if a businessman wants to start some new kind of practice.
Also you have control over...
The Edmund Proper Advertisement.
The Proper False Advertisement.
If they, rather than take a chance on doing something, you offer them the service of
coming and giving them an opinion what you abide by.
Which is binding upon us.
We will not change our mind unless we give them an opportunity to change theirs.
Well, I think that's very fun and should service and should be highly applauded as the business
community cooperate with you in this rank.
So they have been very receptive to this.
In fact, the Chamber Commerce, when they recently met here in the nation's capital, has
to resolution endorsing this effort on our part.
And as long as we can do this and do it well, I think that will be better for our system
because if a man, as you say, is going to spend millions and dollars on advertising campaign,
he shouldn't have to take a risk if there's some way it can be resolved.
Any questions before?
Well, Rand, you're also administer the Robinson Patman Act, which is very important for
small business.
That's part of the Robinson Patman Act that amended the Clayton Act, which is commonly
the price discrimination, the discrimination section.
We exclusively, practically, enforce this law because justice has pretty well left
this to us.
Well, your attitude in the Federal Trade Commission is to have good healthy competition, but
not to have one fellow doing something improper to his competition.
We hold ourselves centered out as the servant of business.
Of fair business, every businessman wants to be fair.
And we want to help them to eliminate those unfair practices that destroy and hinder good
competition.
We also want to do our dead level best for the consumer.
You know, we have these four consumables that we enforce.
So, for textile and inflamible fabrics act, this is the enforcement to see that the labels
and the representations that Mrs. America goes in the store and read are true.
And the Federal Trade Commission is against price fixing on any kind of basis, feeling
it.
Is that right?
That's right, sir.
That's the law of the line.
The Supreme Court said, price fixing is illegal per se, and we enforce that.
Ladies and gentlemen, I know you have enjoyed seeing and hearing from the chairman of the
Federal Trade Commission, a great Tennessee and from Nashville, who is one of the finest
public servants that we have in the Federal Government today.
That's all for now until next time.
Goodbye.